kimim RV is the ambassador of Israel to
the European Union and nato in Brussels
and he's now joining me here at the
European Parliament in
Strasburg Mr Ambassador the parliament
has uh debated the situation in Israel
and Gaza of course the Hamas terror is
rejected by all deputies but the
parliament is also saying Israel should
do a little bit more to protect
civilians in Gaza what what do you say
yeah what I'm saying is first of all we
need to look how it started Hamas
provoke a war the atrocities that they
conduct cannot be forgotten and cannot
be there cannot be any excuse for that
Israel is acting according to
International humanitarian law Israel is
the war this war is not against the
Palestinian people it's not against
civilians it's not against H men women
that are not involved it's only against
Hamas activities and terrorists so we do
all in our power to avoid to avoid
harming un involved people and civilian
nevertheless the European union says
there is a already a humanitarian crisis
in Gaza because the two million people
are deprived of water food and so on and
the you will now send if it's possible
humanitarian Aid to GA strip so what can
Israel do to avoid that we are not I'm
not aware of any humanitarian crisis we
are monitoring the situation there is no
humanitarian crisis the movement of
people is because we do not want to harm
any uninvolved civilian this why Israel
our uh Army and defense establishment
call the population to move from areas
that make some there might be harms so
again the purpose of this warning that
we will not harm any of people that are
not involved un unfortunately the Hamas
use those people as a human Shields they
do not have they do not care for the
population like the incident that we saw
yesterday at the hospital where Hamas
fir a rocket that hit or Islamic Jihad
hit the hospital they they fire it from
a PO area where civilian live in and it
they hid their own hospital and they
cause the deaths of hundreds of people
this is the way that they act and they
don't care for them yesterday was a
success ful day because they succeed to
sell the story that Israel is harming
people and put pressure on Israel but we
have a full evidence that it was done by
Hamas and Islamic Jihad well Hamas is
saying that Israel attacked the hospital
in the European Union for example the
head of the commission USA ferine also
said the facts have to be established I
mean of course you're the ambassador of
Israel you tell your story Hamas tell
the other story so what shall the public
do there is only one story fact and we
have a clear record of Hamas terrorist
activist and we have a clear footage
video of this rocket so there is no
question mark about that there is no
doubt about that and it's about time I'm
not criticizing EU I'm just saying that
I think that it's about time to listen
I'm calling Europe and and and everybody
watching us it's about time to believe
and to strust Israel official statement
and not Terror organization statement
but we have the proof it's there is no
question mark on that the EU says also
that Israel of course has the right to
self-defense and that their ground
offensive will come in the next days
maybe are you not afraid that there will
be more pictures of maybe killed
civilians in Gaza that then will they
temper the the image and the cause of
Israel around the world we are not now
looking into image we are looking into
what's happened and how to solve the
problem and as long as Hamas is there
the problem will stay forever we are
fighting the war of Israel first and
foremost but this this is also the fight
for the Palestinian because as as long
as Hamas is there they will not have any
future so we I'm not going into the
operational detail of what we plan and
what we are not planning but Europe and
the world need to understand what is
this fight about and I want to tell you
another thing is that we are very uh we
appreciate very very much the support
that we see from the you we appreciate
very much that the first time maybe in
our history that the first leader who
come to show solidarity was the
president of the commission Ula fond
line and president of the parliament
this is something that never happened
before and it show how much the EU today
have a strong leadership that saw
support and solidarity without any
Nuance you talked to a lot of
parliamentarians here in Strasburg you
even went to some of the groups and
showed the pictures of the people that
were slau Ed by Hamas in
Israel um what was your reaction do you
think this will the support might
crumble if the operation drags on for
very long we call on immediate release
of those hostage among those hostage
more than 200 people most of them are
civilian babies wom old Holocaust
survival all in all the Hamas this
brutal Terror organization Isis type did
not spare the life of anybody so we are
calling for immediate release immediate
release some of them among them are
European citizens many of them so we
want to show the face of those people
and this is what we are doing there is a
strong support and sympathy here to this
because we all agree this should not
happen this should not happen civilian
should not be part of any any kind of of
this this
conflict Mr Ambassador can you give us a
a sense of um the end game the aim
Israel wants to achieve after Hamas has
been defeated and is gone in Gaza Strip
what will happen then and what what role
could the EU play in that situation let
me start with the opposite if Hamas will
stay in any and they're not going to
stay Gaza will never be recovered from
that as long as Hamas is there Gaza will
never recover this why I'm am saying
that we fighting also for the
Palestinian himself the end game is to
eliminate Hamas his infrastructure the
people who conduct this ter attack it's
leadership we don't have any intention
to stay there we by the way 20 years we
almost 20 years we are not in Gaza this
is this is a misconception about you
know Siege or or or controlling Gaza
Gaza is controlled by Kamas for more
than 20 years so we don't have any
intention to go back to Gaza the only
intention that we have right now and
plan and desire and we will do it is to
wipe Hamas eliminate their capability
the people who conduct these murders and
their leadership that they will Hamas
will not have after this war any
capability to come back and control Gaza
for many decades also the European Union
has paid Aid to the Palestinian
Authority and and also via Nos and the
United Nations to GA strip should that
continue after the operation we for
years we call in the European Union and
other International player to support
the Palestinian Authority and to support
the Palestinian people we are not we are
not against the Palestinian we are not
against the Palestinian Authority We
call we encourage we in the past years
we encourage the EU and other players to
support the Palestinian
economically and and in the last year we
saw that the EU was the biggest donor of
course we do not have a problem with
that right now the US is uh viewing
reviewing and we I think it's good to
look into where this money goes and not
goes but basically we are supporting any
assistant for the economic assistant for
the Palestinian
thank you very much for your time
sirk